1.3 Task 3: Development of a Spam Filter
Background: In recent years the short messages communication has become ubiquitous for social interactions
around the globe. This applies both to private as well as professional sectors. The amount of spam messages has
increased as well, particularly on publicly available channels. Your company would like to install an open channel
for some of their products to enable fast and interactive feedback for their customers or possible future
customers. You are the data scientist in the company asked to support the service team with building a spam filter
for this channel.
Therefore, you are provided with a dataset compiled from different open-source datasets for short messages.
One request from the service team is that the model should allow for adjustments with respect to the risk of
allowing spam to pass, due to the huge variety of message quality that the (possible) customers provide.
Therefore, the spam filter should be adjustable via different spam-risk levels, e.g., “low-risk“ (very restrictive) and
„high-risk“ (not restrictive). The messages passing the “low-risk“-level are immediately displayed. The other ones
are moved to a folder for further analysis. You should also provide a strategy for further analysis, so as not to lose
customers.
Task: Support the service team via a classification model that can identify spam from short messages and that
allows for an adjustable risk level and a plausible strategy to deal with erroneous spam classification.
Dataset: The dataset and additional information are provided in the file:
“Additional_Information_Case_Study_DLBDSME01”
Detailed description of the task: The task consists of both a programming part and conceptual subtasks. Here
follows a detailed description of open questions to be answered in the final document:
— Organize the project using the CRISP-DM or the MS Team Data Science method. Make a proposal on how
to build the folder structure of a Git repository for the project.
— Assess the quality of the data set provided. Prepare and visualize your findings in such a way that
business partners can understand the important relationships in a clear and simple way.
— Create, train, test a binary classification model with the provided dataset.
(Tip: due to the short length of the messages, word counts, and simple models might already perform
reasonable)
— To help business partners develop confidence in your new model, a detailed error analysis is very
important so that the business partners also understand the weaknesses of your approach.
In the last step of the project, you should propose how your model can be integrated into the daily work of the
service team, for example how a graphical user interface (GUI) could look like.
Note: There is not one perfect solution. It is important to keep the concepts and techniques you have learned
during the course in mind and to carefully prepare and process the data accordingly. At the end of each step of
this use case, you should critically assess whether all necessary operations have been conducted and argue for
the decisions you have made during this process.